# Social-Performance-Estimator
 Predicting Social Media Performance Using Machine Learning with a Personalized Dataset.

 This project, as part of the Machine Learning Engineering Class (Spring 2024) at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, will instigate a supervised regression ML model to predict the popularity (in the amount of "likes") that a proposed image will generate given a precedent of images (validated through feature vector extraction) and their likes as a target. 


# Machine Learning Project proposal...
 Being a content creator in this ever-changing world of trends is starting to become a game of chance rather than a game of strategy. While one post (for example, on Instagram) might succeed in giving a satisfying number of likes, other posts might fail to become popular for seemingly no reason. To the untrained eye, this might just be a consequence of the Instagram algorithm limiting exposure or reach randomly, but to the eyes of a ML Engineer, there are some patterns that appear in the behavior of followers. By mathematically modeling a function that predicts in advance how many likes an image would get, content creators would be able to make more informed choices on what (and whatnot) to upload to their profile!

 The problem that I will be investigating involves putting a pin on the behavior of my personal followers on instagram: Every post that I upload involves my face in some way, so my assumption is that all of my posts would receive a consistent amount of likes and comments by the same individuals. However, despite all 826 of my followers having access to my account at all times, some pictures naturally receive more likes and camaraderie than others. I am not an instagram influencer: however, I can see why others (especially those financially depending on their instagram performance) would want to track these patterns in accordance to their audiences.

 What makes this problem interesting is that, despite the inherent demand, there is not really an open source (or github project) that tackles this problem on a personal, individual dataset. Most “instagram likes predictor” projects online mention web scrapers to build massive swathes of instagram engagement datasets, but those datasets defeat the purpose of predicting the behavior of followers within small, closed off, private accounts like my own. My project will focus directly on the private behaviors of my personal followers and their respective likes/dislikes, and hence, data from my account will be used in training and fitting my ML model. For the sake of forking, it is entirely possible to replace my dataset and train my model with your own. 

 Machine Learning is a useful approach in mathematically consolidating these behaviors and putting trends to application. Assuming all 165 of my images as inputs and the number of likes/comments as features, a Linear Regression approach will be taken to predict post popularity (in the form of numerical integer “likes”) against a feature vector generated from a dataset of processed images. While I am unsure whether I could combine the feature-vector generation with a Linear Regressive approach, some publications that I indent on reading involve Convolutional Neural Networks (and how they create these feature vectors from images). I have also noticed that there are publications on image classification using linear or logical regression which I believe could also aid me in building/analyzing a data-pipeline.

 The algorithms that can analyze images and predict numbers from them are pre-existing. However, the challenge in this project is to collect the training data and testing data. I will consolidate my instagram images into 165 feature vectors containing the pixels of the image and the respective likes/comments. For the predictions, I will compare the results from my machine learning model against 10 posts that I will post, then compare the performance of those posts to the predictions made by my model. I will then calculate the mean square error and the losses of the respective likes, and from the results I shall modify my model. I will then proceed to post 10 more images on my instagram to see whether my model became more accurate or not. A training/validation graph will be made from the comparisons using mean square error as a regression metric. Hopefully, with this iterative approach, my model can become useful not only to me, but to others who want to optimize their social media accounts!

